# Computer Vision Project

The task for this project is to create a simple Rock, Paper, Scissors game to be played against the computer, where the player's input is given through the webcam and interpreted by a computer vision model. The computer vision model will be generated by the online Teachable Machine service provided by Google, and the logic of the game will be coded in Python.

# Milestone 1

The task for the first milestone is to generate the model that will be used to interpret the player's input and download it into the local environment. The model should be able to distinguish between the player showing either rock, paper, scissors, or nothing. The online Teachable Machine service is used to generate the model. 

Insert image

I used approximately 500 training images for each of the data categories, generated by showing the respective symbols in various orientations to the camera.

Once the model was generated, its constituent files were downloaded and placed in the `model` folder of this Github repository.

# Milestone 2

The first task for this milestone is to create a new conda conda environment and install in it the necessary libraries to run the model I have generated. I created a new environment called `my_env` and installed in it the libraries `opencv-python`, `tensorflow`, and `ipykernel`. I then exported the list of packages to the file `requirements.txt`.

Insert conda list image

The next task was to check that the model worked. To do so the file `RPS-template.py` was downloaded and placed in the same folder as the model. When run a window popped up with a feed of the webcam, and an output was continuously given with the the model's prediction of what the feed contained, confirming that the model worked.

Insert image of running file.

# Milestone 3

The task for this milestone was to code a simple rock, paper, scissors game where the user's choice is manually input. The game should randomly select the computer's choice, prompt the player to give an input, calculate the winner, and print a statement saying who won. If the player's choice is not one of rock, paper, or scissors the game will reject it and continue to prompt until a valid choice is given. To do this, I first created two functions: `get_computer_choice` and `get_user_choice`.

```python
import random

def get_computer_choice():
    options = ['rock', 'paper', 'scissors']
    computer_choice = random.choice(options)
    return computer_choice

def get_user_choice():
    valid = False
    while valid == False:
        user_choice = input('What is your choice? \n\n [ROCK] [PAPER] [SCISSORS]\n \n')
        if user_choice.lower() not in ['rock', 'paper', 'scissors']:
            print('Sorry, that is not a valid choice. \n')
        else:
            valid = True
    return user_choice
```

- I imported the `random` module to be able to pick a random item from a list.
- In the body of the `get_computer_choice` function I created a list `options` containing the strings `'rock'`, `'paper'`, and `'scissors'`.
    - I then used the `random.choice` method to select a a random item from this list and assigned it ot the variable `computer_choice`.
    - The function then returns `computer_choice`.
- In the body of the `get_user_choice` I initialise the variable `valid` as equal to `False`.
    - I then create a `while` loop that will continue to run as long `valid` remains `False`.
    - The `input` function is then used to prompt the player and their input is assigned to the variable `user_choice`.
    - If the input is not either `rock`, `paper`, or `scissors` the statement `Sorry, that is not a valid choice. \n` is printed and the player is again prompted to make a choice.
    - Otherwise, the variable `valid` is set to `True` causing the loop to exit.
    - The function then returns `user_choice`

Next I created the function `get_winner` that accepts the arguments `computer_choice` and `user_choice` and returns the winner.

```python
def get_winner(computer_choice, user_choice):
    if computer_choice == 'rock':
        if user_choice.lower() == 'rock':
            winner = 'draw'
        elif user_choice.lower() == 'paper':
            winner = 'user'
        elif user_choice.lower() == 'scissors':
            winner = 'comp'
    elif computer_choice == 'paper':
        if user_choice.lower() == 'rock':
            winner = 'comp'
        elif user_choice.lower() == 'paper':
            winner = 'draw'
        elif user_choice.lower() == 'scissors':
            winner = 'user'
    elif computer_choice == 'scissors':
        if user_choice.lower() == 'rock':
            winner = 'user'
        elif user_choice.lower() == 'paper':
            winner = 'comp'
        elif user_choice.lower() == 'scissors':
            winner = 'draw'
    return winner
```

- In the body of the function `get_winner`a series of `if`/`elif` statements are then used to compare `computer_choice` and `user_choice`.
- If they are the same, the variable `winner` is set to `'draw'`.
- If the computer is the winner, the variable `winner` is set to `'comp'`.
- If the player is the winner, the variable `winner` is set to `'user'`
- The function then returns `winner`.

Finally, I created the function `play` that will run the game by calling the other functions, then output a statement indicating the winner.

```python
def play():
    computer_choice = get_computer_choice()
    user_choice = get_user_choice()
    winner = get_winner(computer_choice, user_choice)
    print(f'\nThe computer chose: {computer_choice}\n')
    if winner == 'draw':
        print('It was a draw.')
    elif winner == 'comp':
        print('Bad luck, the computer won.')
    elif winner == 'user':
        print('Congratulations! The player is the winner.')

if __name__ == '__main__':
    play()
```

- In the body of `play` I call the `get_computer_choice` and `get_user_choice` functions and assign their outputs to `computer_choice` and `user_choice` respectively.
- The `get_winner` function is then called on `computer_choice` and `user_choice` and the output is assigned to `winner`
- The statement `'The computer chose {computer_choice}'` is printed to inform the player of the computer's choice.
- If it was a draw, the statement `'It was a draw.'` is printed and the function ends.
- If the computer is the winner, the statement `'Bad luck, the computer won.'` is printed and the function ends.
- If the player is the winner, the statement `'Congratulations! The player is the winner.'` is printed and the function ends.
- Finally, the `if __name__ == '__main__':` clause is added at the end so that when the file is run the `play` function is called.

# Milestone 4